Enforce Branch Protection Rules with Scorecards (#2214)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/setup-branch-protection-rules.md

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to drive DevOps and DevSecOps governance in your organization by enforcing branch protection rules using scorecards 
---

# Enforce Branch Protection Rules with Scorecards

Branch protection rules are powerful ways to ensure critical branches in your repositories like `main` or `release` follow security and governance best practices. By tracking these rules with Port's scorecards, platform and security teams can monitor organizational compliance, enforce DevSecOps policies, and ensure consistent engineering standards across all teams.

> This guide shows you how to track GitHub branch protection settings using Port's scorecards, providing visibility and automation around repository health and security posture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how to track GitHub branch protection settings using Port's scorecards, providing visibility and automation around repository health and security posture.
```

                require_code_owner_review: >-
                .branch.protectionRules.required_pull_request_reviews.require_code_owner_reviews
                allow_force_pushes: .branch.protectionRules.allow_force_pushes.enabled
                allow_deletions: .branch.protectionRules.allow_deletions.enabled
                require_signed_commits: .branch.protectionRules.required_signatures.enabled
                require_linear_history: .branch.protectionRules.required_linear_history.enabled
                restrict_creations: .branch.protectionRules.block_creations.enabled
                restrict_updates: .branch.protectionRules.restrict_updates.enabled
                require_conversation_resolution: >-
                .branch.protectionRules.required_conversation_resolution.enabled
                lock_branch: .branch.protectionRules.lock_branch.enabled
                block_force_pushes: .branch.protectionRules.allow_force_pushes.enabled == false
            relations:
                repository: .repository.name
    ```
    </details>

4. Click `Save & Resync` to apply the mapping.

## Set up scorecard

> We will create a scorecard that will evaluate the health of each repo based on its protection configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a scorecard that will evaluate the health of each repo based on its protection configuration:
```
